## Rollback.

Suppose we want to temporarily rewind the project working directory to an earlier state. Git allows us extract an earlier snap-shot from the repository, termed __checking out__. The checked out snap-shot/version is placed in the working directory, completely overwriting the currently content. Obviously, it will only allow a checkout when the working directory is 'clean' - no modified files. 

Type the command;
~~~
$ git log
~~~
The response is similar to the following:
~~~
$ git log
commit fb843e96e0f83f747031916b27e968c4e9a7f89a
Author: Diarmuid O Connor <doconnor@wit.ie>
Date:   Sat Sep 23 11:00:29 2017 +0100

    CheckReorder and updateStock implemented and tested

commit e343c66f7f4067ce34a2808a7b6304dfeae6e7dd
Author: Diarmuid O Connor <doconnor@wit.ie>
Date:   Sat Sep 23 10:48:06 2017 +0100

    RemoveProductPyName tested

commit d921dcebb0f37558892517af737f199d752e2f23
Author: Diarmuid O Connor <doconnor@wit.ie>
Date:   Fri Sep 22 19:17:57 2017 +0100

    Tested findProductByName

commit 2649e15a0b10df40995f9cc068a219c1dd134eab
Author: Diarmuid O Connor <doconnor@wit.ie>
Date:   Fri Sep 22 18:32:44 2017 +0100

    Initial project structure
~~~

Each commit has a computed __hash value / checksum__, e.g. fb843e96e0f83f747031916b27e968c4e9a7f89a. To checkout a version we specify the hash value (the first few characters will suffice). For example, in the above log, we could checkout the 'RemoveProductByName tested' version as follows:
~~~
$ git checkout e343c66f7       (Your hash may be different)
~~~
To prove it worked, examine the content of `catalogue.js` (or  `catalogue-test.js`). The file content has been reset back to an earlier state. You could now examine the code and run it. No editing should be done however without first creating a branch (covered in next week's lab).

To return your working directory back to the most recent state, use:
~~~
$ git checkout master
~~~
Examine the content of `catalogue.js` again. The working directory is now back in sync with the head of the repository.

You should now have a clear understanding of the basic Git work-flow: the *Edit-Stage-Commit* workflow.

[log]: ./log.png 